# LinearRegressionGradePredictor

This is a simple machine learning project designed to predict the grades of students based on two of their midterm grades. I coded it in Java to have some variation from Python as well as to keep my Java skills sharp. Because I was making my own linear algebraic methods for this project, I wanted to choose an algorithm that is generally faster so that I wouldn't have to worry about it being painfully slow as a result of my non-optimized algorithms. I opted for multivariate linear regression and found a widely-used dataset for student grades. More information on the dataset as well as citations can be found here: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Student+Performance. 

The linear regression algorithm is not too complicated, so that part of the project was not difficult, but organizing the data proved challenging. My method for randomizing the data was acceptable for a dataset this small, but for much larger datasets it would be incredibly slow. After this project, I completely understand the shift towards Python and ML libraries like TensorFlow and PyTorch to get this kind of thing done quickly; trying to manipulate data of this scale in Java using arrays and non-optimized shuffling methods is very difficult. It's possible I will use Java again for ML in the future, but if I do it would most likely be with the help of libraries for the linear algebraic functions. Java is neat and satisfying, but generally not as practical as Python. 

To use the predictor, simply run main. Feel free to mess around with learning rates, iterations, or other aspects of the algorithm that are flexible. Thanks for reading!
